let's just anyway go back to the book
and just focus on what he says at the
end of this particular paragraph so it's
worth reading that sentence again he
says quote we teach her on the edge of
the bathroom scale in a way that
minimizes our weight procrastinate
getting a medical test that may return
an unwelcome result and try to believe
that human nature is infinitely
malleable end quote
and that last bit there is just an
unfortunate fallacy especially from a
psychologist and a renowned psychologist
at that someone who clearly does not
understand universality now perhaps
universality is a new idea Cutting Edge
epistemology and psychology perhaps but
it's true we can understand anything
that is understandable we can understand
any physical phenomena because any
physical phenomena is computable which
explanations are a kind of computation
we can construct explanations about
physical phenomena out there in the
universe and that includes ourselves in
other words human nature is infinitely
malleable this is not a bias or a
Prejudice or an error it simply is the
case that it's infinitely malleable now
whether or not we can as a matter of
personal psychology go about solving our
problems and getting over our
anti-rational memes as we say here well
that's another matter but in principle
we're infinitely malleable and to deny
that we're infinitely malleable is just
an error it's a misconception so we
should believe I don't like that word
okay we should understand that it simply
is the case that our best explanation of
what human Minds can do is to be
infinitely malleable is to take on any
problem and solve it to become the kind
of person that you want to you are
infinitely malleable and it's a
pessimistic idea I would say for a
psychologist to be telling the reader
that they can't do anything they like
with their mind but they can but
Professor Pinker like so many others the
Brit weinsteins of the world and other
famous psychologists I think Jordan
Peterson and daughter endorses a version
of this idea
we inherit certain genes and the genes
of the things that cause us to behave in
certain ways and these things are just
baked in to our psychology and this is
false this is wrong we can change our
minds it doesn't matter what the
antecedents are of the ideas the idea
might be genetic okay let's grant that
and I don't know if it's true but let's
grant that some ideas come from the DNA
okay they're implanted in there in the
DNA and they they they're fixed in the
brain and then they're part of our mind
but the mind is not the brain the mind
can change itself the mind is infinitely
malleable doesn't matter what the genes
say after all as David Deutsch has
pointed out we might all have genes for
survival genes for let's say eating
stuff but people routinely go on diets
and refuse to eat people sadly commit
suicide as well so if we have these
genes for survival and eating how is it
that we explain that some people defy
this genetic compulsion this genetic
requirement this genetically determined
Behavior well of course I suppose The
evolutionary psychologists come back and
say well they've got a quirky Gene
they've got a mutation that determines
that they do the opposite thing which of
course is what do we say a bad
explanation because it can explain any
sort of behavior it can explain anything
at all whereas we say it's the memes and
the ideas that explain people's behavior
and that's not easily variable because
you need to talk about
specific ideas and by the way no one's
ever identified specific genes as
causing specific ideas so that's another
matter so let's keep going this is a
very slow process through this chapter
he then goes on to say quote there is a
more rational way to reconciliate
ignorance with our desires the tool of
Reason called signal detection Theory
or statistical decision Theory it
combines the big ideas of the two
preceding chapters estimating the
probability that something is true of
the world Bayesian reasoning and
deciding what to do about it by weighing
its expected costs and benefits rational
Choice end quote okay so he's going to
be relying upon the two pillars that are
made entirely of misconceptions from the
previous chapters Bayesian reasoning
which is about a probabilistic
assessment of your options when usually
you don't have that many options to
assess you either have one and if you're
lucky you have two and of course you can
do a crucial test to figure out which
one is to be refuted and rational Choice
which as we've said before we cannot
have these fixed set of rules that
determine what our most rational Choice
should be because rather often the best
choice to make is the one not yet
created and we need to create that
choice we need to bring it into being so
it's not choosing among existing options
let alone weighing those options it's
creating seeing new options which are
better than all the existing ones and
once you have that one that's better
than all the existing ones there's no
role for waiting or Bayesian reasoning
you just do the best thing you follow
the good explanation because all the
others are bad explanations By the Light
of the existence of a solitary single
good explanation